Rich Dad Poor Dad

Stop saying, "I can't afford it." but rather, "How can I afford it." The former stops you on your tracks, while the latter forces you to think.

"I took the road less travelled by, and that has made all the difference." - The Road Less Travelled By" by Robert Frost

Lesson 1: The Rich don’t work for money

Most people are governed by two emotions: Fear and Greed. Fear that they will not have enough to pay their bills, and Greed of all the other things they want to buy. The Fear of not having enough money motivates us to work hard, and then when we get that paycheck, greed or desires start us to think of all the wonderful things money can buy. The pattern is then set: Get up. Go to work. Pay bills. Offer them more money, and they will continue this cycle by increasing their spending. This is called the rat race. People get up and go to work, hoping that money will quell their Fear.

Other people work for desire. They spend money to fulfill that desire, but that desire could never be satisfied, it just grows, so they spend more and more and more.

Fear and Desire/Greed are emotions you should avoid in handling money. We can observe our emotions, but we should not let them govern us. 

Fear pushes you out the door, and desire calls to you. That’s the trap.

-------

It’s not how much money you make but how much money you keep

If you want to be rich, you need to be financially literate. 

Rule # 1: Know the difference between Assets and Liabilities, and buy Assets

Peope who get quick money often finds themselves again in the same financial mess or worse than before

Money accentuates the cash flow pattern in your head. If your pattern is to spend, then Increase in cash will just increase in spending.

Financial aptitude - what you do with your money

Wealth - how many days forward without cash inflow you can survive (Buckman Fuller) - Survivability. The moment you achieved an amount from your income-generating asset equal to your cash outflow, then you will be wealthy. If you want to increase your cash outflow, then you should increase your cash inflow by the same amount to maintain the same level of wealth. You become independent from your wages. You become more focused on acquiring income generating assets.

Goal: Excess money from your income generating asset -> reinvested to acquire more income-generating assets

The rich buy assets, the poor only has expenses, the middle class buy liabilities they think are assets!

The rich is focused on their assets, the others focused on their income statements

Mind your own business
People usually study and become what they studied. They go on and have a job. They don’t make a. business out of it.

Keep your day job but be active on your business! Once a dollar goes into your asset column, it becomes your employee! It will work for you.

What kind of assets to invest on?
1. Businesses that do not require my presence. These are managed by other people. (If I work there, then it becomes a job, not a business)
2. Stocks and Bonds
3. Income-generating Real Estate
4. Notes and IOUs
5. Royalties from intellectual properties like music, scripts, and patents
6. Anything else that has value and has a ready market

Most of the time, taxes are paid by middle class people because corporate taxes are lower than individual tax. 

To protect their assets, the secret of the rich is to create a corporations.

Financial Literacy pillars:
1. Accounting (Left brain)
2. Investing - science of money making money (right brain - creativity)
3. Understanding markets - science of supply and demand (does an investment make sense?)
4. The law

——-
Taxes

Individuals are taxed on their gross salary, but corporations are taxed on profit after expenses!

2 kinds of investors:
1. Type 1 - someone who buys investments in package (e.g. mutual funds, etc)
2. Type 2 - someone who buys components of investments and making them work together

3 Skills that you need to become a Type 2 Investor:
1. Find an opportunity that everybody else miss
2. Raise money (capital) [not through bank]
3. Organize smart people. Choose your adviser wisely.

Work to learn. Don’t work for money.

JOB - Just Over Broke

Employees work hard just to get paid while employers pay the employees just enough so that they don’t quit.

You should work for a job for the sake of learning, not for the sake of earning.

People who work hard on their jobs are like hamsters who work hard on running on their wheel cage, but for naught.

3 important management skills essential to success:
1 Management of cash flow
2. Management of systems
3. Management of people

Most important skill to be successful: Marketing and Selling Skills!!

Winning is not being afraid to win. Most successful people are made up of failures. You will learn how to bike after many falls. 

There are cynics everywhere who will demotivate you on taking the risk even without having the experience or credibility themselves. They ignite fear, and fear will make you lose. Don’t listen to them. 

Always pay yourself first before the government or your creditors. The latter will yell louder if you don’t pay them, but you will often not hear anything if you don’t pay your self. The pressure of not having money to pay your taxes or creditor will make your money brain work more to find ways on how to have money. It’s like going to the gym. 

How to start?

10 steps to develop your financial genius:
1. Find a reason greater than reality - the power of spirit

What don’t you want on your current reality now? What do you want to have when you achieve financial freedom? These reasons should be stronger than reality. 

2. Make daily choices - the power of choice
Invest in your gratest asset - your
Mind

3. Choose your friends carefully - The power of association

Rich people often talk about money, not to brag, but because their minds have adapted to it. Poor people go to them not to ask how they did it, but to get a loan or a job. 

Don’t listen to poor or frightened people. They are the chicken littles of life. They always tell you why something won’t work. 

4. Master a formula and then learn a new one - the power of learning quickly

5. Pay yourself first - the power of self-discipline

A. Dont get into large debt positions that you have to pay for. Build your assets first. Keep your expenses low. Then, buy that house or car

B. When you come up short, let the pressure build up. Don’t dip in to your savings. Use the pressure to inspire your financial genius to cone io ways to make mire money, then pay your bills. 

Savings are only used to create more money, not pay bills!

6. Pay your brokers well - the power of good advice. 

Good professionals are expensive. But the information they give is priceless. 

If all you’re thinking about is cutting down their commission, then do you think they will have your best interest in mind?

Most people pay tips on waiters whole heartedly but are resistant on paying professionals for their assets. 

Manage and reward the people who are smarter than you. Ex. Board of directors

7. Be an Indian given - the power of giving something for nothing

Invest in something with ROI in mind. Ex. Invest in stocks for a company with forecasted growth in a month. When the prices go up, withdraw the initial amount and let the gains grow more. The initial amount is invested for another asset. 

Invest in something which makes you get something else for free. 

8. Use assets to buy luxuries - the power of focus

9. Choose heroes - the power of myths

Heroes make things look easy. If they can do it, so can I. 

10. Teach and ye shall receive - the power of giving

Tithe!

If you want something, you must first learn how to give. If you’re running short of something, give what you want first and it will come back to you in buckets. 

I want money so I give money, and money comes to me. I want sales, so I help someone get sales, and I get sales. Giving always works like magic. 

God does need to receive, but humans need to give. 

Poor people are more greedy than rich people. 

Your world is only a mirror of you. 

Other tips

1. Stop doing what you’re doing. Evaluate what works and what doesn’t. 

2. Look for new ideas. Go to bookstores for different and unique subjects, subjects you know nothing about. Read "The 16% Solution" and do what exactly the book said. Most people don’t take action. 

3. Find someone who has done what you want to do. Ask them for tips. 

4. Take classes, read, and attend seminars. Most are free or cheap. 

5. Make lots of offers. No one knows what the right offer is. Most sellers ask too much and they wouldn’t know what the right offer is until a second offer comes. Offer for half the price*

3 types of income:
A. Earned or ordinary - taxed highest by govt
B. Portfolio
C. Passive

The rich earn the highest in their B and C. Bill Gates is the wealthiest man not because of A but because of B and C.

